Good morning, and welcome to the Managing
Kernels Extension Session.
I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm Apple's USB and FireWire evangelist.
As part of that,
I work with a lot of people
that work on kernel extensions.
As we talked about in the past session
-- and this is an important message to
get across -- our preference is that
folks don't write kernel extensions.
And you can look even in our own system,
where the printing I/O module in Tioga,
the image capture architecture,
camera modules, scanner drivers, etc.
are all running in user space.
They don't need to
have kernel extensions.
There are, of course,
some situations where
you need to do that.
Network kernel extensions,
certain file systems extensions,
and mass storage drivers,
those sorts of things do
require kernel extensions.
And that puts you as developers into
some very important considerations.
You need to be aware of how
to handle the KEXT cache.
You need to be aware of
file write permissions,
et cetera.
So in order to go through the
managing kernel extensions,
I'd like to welcome Dean Reece,
the I/O Kit Software Engineering Manager.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thanks for coming.
Let's dive right in.
So today I'm going to talk about -- start
off with a little bit of what kecks are.
By this time I suspect most
of you know what kecks are.
But I'll talk about it a
bit anyway just to make sure
everybody is up on the same page.
I'm going to talk a little bit about when
to use them and when not to use them.
Craig's already covered that a bit.
But I'll talk about some of the
decision points to help you decide
why you do or don't live in a kernel.
And talk -- actually most of the
presentation is about some of the
details around actually deploying kecks,
building them, debugging them,
things like that.
And we'll hopefully get you out
of some pitfalls along the way.
So by this time you've probably
seen this slide a couple times.
Everything I'm talking about today
is down in the Darwin kernel.
Everything that KEXTs do run entirely
inside the kernel address space.
So if you're in here interested
in user space drivers,
as Craig talked about,
we won't be talking about those here.
We'll be talking a little bit about
how in kernel drivers can communicate
to entities outside the kernel,
but we're really focused
on Darwin at this point.
And to expand on the
Darwin view a little bit,
you'll see I/O Kit and drivers
sort of off to the side
there as a vertical stack.
We're -- I/O Kit is
based on Mach primitives.
We're entirely mock-based.
We do work with BSD since
BSD provides our networking
and our storage infrastructure,
but I/O Kit itself doesn't have any
BSD primitives or any BSD tie-ins.
It's really a service provider to BSD.
Okay.
So most basic definition,
Kernel Extensions provide you
a way to extend the kernel,
Mac OS X kernel.
In particular,
they're a bundle that will include
the binary code that gets loaded and
run in the kernel and some descriptive
information about why to load it,
when to load it, how to load it,
and so on.
Now, there are three kinds of
Kernel Extensions that we
make use of in Mac OS X.
There are I/O Kit drivers and families.
I kind of lumped those together.
They're actually a little bit different,
but for the purposes of KEXT management,
you can really consider them the same.
There are network kernel extensions,
obviously things that plug
into the BSD network stacks,
and file system extensions.
These would be typically
loadable file systems.
Now, as has been said in
several previous sessions,
you really want to avoid using
loadable file systems or developing
loadable file systems or loadable
network plug-ins at this point as
Apple is still evolving those APIs.
We've had the power of Unix and the
power of our BSD kernel is very,
very powerful.
But at the same time,
the Unix kernel has grown up with
the assumption that you rebuild
things from release to release.
So there hasn't been a lot of
emphasis put on binary compatibility.
And as a result,
it's very hard for us to extend
the BSD parts of the kernel
in a way that don't break file
system or network plug-ins.
I/O Kit, of course,
is a new development at Apple,
and we knew that this was rebuilding
drivers every time we released the
OS was not going to be acceptable to
our developers or our customer base.
So I/O Kit has some infrastructure
for dealing with binary compatibility.
It's not perfect, but it goes a long way
towards easing the problem.
And so at this point,
we recommend just developing
I/O Kit drivers in I/O Kit-style
libraries or families.
So, obviously, if you can avoid shipping
a Kernel Extension at all,
that's the best possible solution.
Development inside the kernel is of
course harder than outside of the kernel
because it's deeper in the system,
it's harder to debug.
crashes are fatal.
If you're running inside the kernel
and you hit something that would
cause a user process to exit,
that's going to cause the kernel to exit,
which means the whole
machine stops running.
So if you can keep your
code outside the kernel,
then the system will be more stable.
It's a better user experience.
Also,
kernel resources are more expensive,
and it's kind of hard to quantify this,
but keep in mind that by default,
memory that you allocate inside
the kernel is wired memory.
The actual text of your driver,
the binary, when it's loaded,
that's wired memory.
: In kernel threads have
the ability to run at higher
priorities than user land threads.
So, again, you're going to be running it
probably at a higher priority than
an equivalent user land thread.
You have some controls over
that if you tune your driver
in user land or kernel land,
you can avoid that problem.
But basically,
running inside the kernel is going
to be a little bit more expensive.
It gets you closer to the metal,
so it allows you to do things
you couldn't otherwise do.
For instance, if you have to respond
directly to an interrupt,
I don't mean running in the
interrupt context per se,
but if you have a driver
that needs to take a hardware
interrupt and do some work,
then you probably need to
live inside the kernel.
Now, this shouldn't be confused
with a USB interrupt pipe or
soft interrupts that are used
in other areas of the system.
This would be like a PCI card
generating an interrupt on the bus.
The other reason to live inside
the kernel is if your primary
client lives inside the kernel.
Now, examples of this would
be storage drivers.
They need to live inside the
kernel because the file systems
themselves live inside the kernel.
Since 99% of the time,
your media is going to be
accessed through a file system,
it would be inefficient to have the
file system driver outside of the
kernel and then have the file system
driver itself inside the kernel because
that data would have to make multiple
trips across the user kernel boundary.
There are some cases when
that's perfectly reasonable.
In particular, a low bandwidth case,
that might be fine because the amount
of data you're moving is small enough
that the multiple crossings make sense.
But if you have a data driver
that's not going to be able to move,
then you're going to have to
make multiple trips across
the user kernel boundary.
In particular, a low bandwidth case,
that might be fine because the amount
of data you're moving is small enough
that the multiple crossings make sense.
So, if you have a data
driver inside the kernel,
you're going to have to make multiple
trips across the user kernel.
So, you want to have as few
boundary crossings as possible.
So, the storage drivers
live inside the kernel.
The file systems stack on top of them.
So, to talk about what a KEXT looks like,
to a user, it's just a thing.
It's an icon they drag and drop.
To developers,
it's a folder containing resources.
There's really two things in
there that you're going to
care about most of the time.
The, really the only required
thing is a property list.
Now, if you're familiar with
the Mac OS X bundle format,
a kernel extension is just a bundle.
There's nothing magic about it.
But the property list is sort
of the table of contents,
you could say.
It contains an XML property list
that contains some standard keys
like the CFBundle identifier,
which is sort of a global
name that your bundle goes by,
versions,
How you load, your matching criteria,
what family you load on,
all these things are specified
in that XML property list.
This is read in by the KEXT management
system and used to determine when to load
your driver and how to go about doing it.
The other piece that most Kernel
Extensions include is a binary.
Now, it's actually not required.
There are a few cases where you
can have a perfectly useful driver
that doesn't contain a binary.
It seems a little odd.
But this is the power of
the XML property list.
Because of the way that
I/O Kit uses classes,
you can actually provide a property list
that contains a few overrides and say,
"I actually want you to load the binary
out of this other Kernel Extension,
but you're going to pass in
my personality as opposed
to his." So in that way,
you can override some behaviors.
We don't use this a whole lot,
but it is particularly useful if
you have a generic driver that
wants to allow a third party to,
say, override one particular detail.
And as long as the person who wrote
that main driver is looking for that
property and is expecting that override,
a binary list driver is actually
a pretty good way to go.
Other things that can go inside
the Kernel Extension bundle:
localizable string files, icons.
These are things that the KEXT management
system pretty much ignores,
but these might be useful if you've
got a preference panel that wants
to get the localized resources.
Or other things: you can have utility
binaries stuck in there,
firmware images.
Pretty much anything that
you want to bundle along with
your driver that you want,
from the user's perspective,
to be an atomic unit that they
drag and drop as a single thing.
Now, of course,
the user can't tunnel down inside
there to double-click something,
so you're really not going
to put an application down
inside your Kernel Extension.
But you could do that and
create a link if you wanted to.
The other thing that's important is
you can put other kernel extensions
inside your kernel extensions.
There's a plugins folder I'll
show you in a minute that
contains a place to put them.
Actually, let's get right to that.
So the Info.plist I've
already talked about.
Here are the -- I managed to
talk ahead of the slides here.
So here's some of the properties
that would be in the Info.plist.
The CFBundleIdentifier is the global
identifier for all bundles on the system,
and drivers are no different.
We recommend that you use a
reverse DNS-style name here.
Apple, for example,
we use com.apple.driver or com.apple
I/O Kit for our kernel extensions.
But you would use whatever would
be appropriate for your own.
We'd ask that you not use
com.apple for obvious reasons.
The bundle version, again,
is a standard property that
uses more or less the Mac OS 9
vers-resource-style versioning.
We're considering expanding this since
it's kind of constrained on the number
of digits you can have in each field,
but for today we still enforce a
vers-resource-style version here.
The short version string is
the same thing but with the
build stage information removed.
OS Bundle Libraries,
I'll talk about more in a little while,
but this is used to
describe what you depend on,
what your kernel extension depends on.
And I/O Kit personalities obviously
only make sense for I/O Kit drivers,
but that would be where you would
describe the matching information
for your particular I/O Kit driver.
This is the binary.
As I said earlier, it's optional.
It is in a Mako format.
If you use our tools,
that's what you'll get by default.
There's nothing magic
you have to do there.
There are two standard entry points
into a Kernel Extension's binary.
They can be named whatever you want,
but sort of generically we call
them Module Start and Module Stop.
And the idea here is very simple.
When your module is first loaded,
your Kernel Extension binary
is first loaded,
the start entry point is called.
You can succeed or fail.
If you fail,
your Kernel Extension is unloaded.
If you succeed,
your Kernel Extension is considered
loaded and is added to the list of
drivers that show up under Kextstat,
which you may have
previously known as KModstat.
Module Stop will get called later on when
somebody tries to unload your driver,
and again, you can succeed or fail.
If you succeed,
then your driver will be unloaded.
If you fail,
your driver sticks around and can be
attempted to be stopped again later.
Now, I/O Kit drivers don't implement
these functions because that's
done for you by I/O Kit.
I/O Kit uses these hooks to
get your classes published into
our class management system,
our runtime system,
and then we use other techniques
for actually starting your driver.
But if you're writing a
non-I/O Kit Kernel Extension,
these are the only two entry
points that are defined for
Kernel Extensions by default.
So the plugins folder is a place
for you to put other bundles and,
in particular, kernel extensions.
So if you want to nest,
The KEXT is a kernel extension
that is built into a kernel.
The kernel extension is a kernel
That to the user appears to be one thing.
You can also put other
non-Kext bundles in there.
Here in this example,
you'll see there's a user client,
a bundle that's used to get
user-level access to this driver.
You can put other
completely unrelated bundle,
well, un-IOKit or un-Kernel
Extension bundles in there.
Hopefully,
they would be related to the driver.
Important note though,
we only support one level
of Kernel Extension nesting,
so you can't have a KEXT within
a KEXT within a KEXT.
The bottom level one will be ignored.
Okay, obviously you're not required
to have any plug-ins.
And I think I've already talked
It's a very powerful concept to
deliver something to the user
that appears to be very simple.
You can have an arbitrary
number of things,
moving pieces in there,
that the user sees as one thing.
Now, Kernel Extensions can
be used as libraries.
This is something that most
third parties haven't used.
Some have if you have a complicated
product that you're supporting.
But this is very important.
I want to spend some
time talking about this.
I/O Kit itself is
largely presented to you,
the developer,
as a collection of library KEXTs.
Now, when you set your OS bundle
dependencies property,
that's your way of telling our
KEXT loading system what Kernel
Extensions you need to link against.
You also specify a
version number in there,
which is used to help us tell
whether you're compatible or not.
I'll talk more about
that in a little while.
But basically what
you're doing is saying,
"I depend on this other
kernel extension." Now,
those kernel extensions
can in turn depend on other
kernel extensions and so on.
We build up a dependency
graph at load time.
When you want to load your driver,
we look at its dependencies
and its dependencies,
dependencies, and so on,
and we build up this graph of
required kernel extensions.
And then we flatten it,
and then we start or
load all those drivers.
If we see that it's already loaded
and has been successfully started,
obviously there's nothing to do.
But at the, sort of the end of this
graph will be your driver.
So once all of its
dependencies have been met,
your driver will be loaded.
It's important to know, though,
that by listing something
as a dependency,
your driver will be linked against them.
So all the rules for
static linking apply.
If the module you're linking
against exports 50 symbols,
those symbols are now your symbols.
And all of the dependencies
that they have,
you've just inherited those symbols.
Now, those symbols that you've inherited,
or that you're linking against,
aren't necessarily visible
to other kernel extensions,
because they may not have listed
the same dependencies that you have.
But this is how you go
about getting libraries.
Now, you can build your own
libraries in the same way.
You can define a kernel extension.
That contains 15 APIs that
your collection of drivers
all want to be able to share.
You can put it in a kernel
extension by itself,
and you can provide the OS bundle
compatible version property.
This is the magic that turns your
kernel extension into a library.
That property tells us that your driver
is expected to be used as a dependency
by some other kernel extension.
If this property is absent,
then that's your way of saying
you don't expect somebody
to list you as a dependency.
So the value of this property,
the actual thing on the
right-hand side of the assignment,
is the oldest version number
with which you are compatible.
We'll make this really clear.
So you have a CFBundle version number.
Every driver does.
This is the version of
your current driver,
your current kernel extension.
The OS bundle compatible version
specifies the oldest version with which
the APIs you export are compatible,
or binary compatible.
So your CFBundle version and
your OS bundle compatible version
define a range of version numbers.
Oldest is the OS bundle version,
compatible version,
and newest is CFBundle version.
That range
is what a client driver can use to
determine if it's binary compatible.
Actually, the KEXT system uses this.
I believe I have an example of this here.
So, if you have a driver that depends
on a library that you provide,
Let's say the library is version 2.
It doesn't matter what
version the driver is,
but the library is version 2.
Excuse me.
The driver that you're loading
depends on version 2 of the library.
Now the library could be up to version 3,
but as long as it says it's
backwards compatible to version 1,
that driver is considered compatible.
And the reason is the
range from 1.0 to 3.0,
obviously 2.0 is included in that range.
Okay.
So we've talked about
nesting kernel extensions.
And we talked about using
kernel extensions as libraries.
Another thing that you can do is use
I/OKit's built in matching capabilities,
again if you're an I/OKit KEXT,
to bring in other kernel
extensions in your suite as needed.
Now, if you look at any of our families,
if you're writing an I/OKit KEXT then you
by definition are looking at some family,
your driver is going to
match in on that family.
That family is going to publish a nub,
it's going to call
register service on it,
that's going to kick
off I/OKit's matching,
your driver will be considered as one of
the possibilities and will be loaded and
started and probed and all that stuff,
or probed and started.
: You can use that as well.
Most of the machinery for
that is built in I/O service.
You just inherit it with your driver.
So it need not be a public open family.
It doesn't have to be something that,
you know, anybody can use.
It can be a sort of a private
library that you make use of
yourself or a private matching
engine that you use yourself.
So basically all you have to do
is have your driver create a nub,
and that nub can be any class.
Generally we'll define some class,
you know, I/O, my nub.
It won't be I/O actually.
That's reserved by Apple.
So my nub.
Hopefully with a little
bit more specific name than
When you've defined,
instantiated one of those classes
and it's registered itself,
that causes the matching
engine to kick off.
The KEXT Management System is going
to look for drivers that list that
particular class as what it matches on.
So the next piece of your driver
suite can match in on that object.
Now let's assume that your driver
or your small set of drivers are
the only thing that lists that as
the class that they match against.
Well, when you do that,
Only your little private set
of drivers is going to be
in the running for that nub.
They'll each be attached and probed.
And in your probe
routine for your driver,
you can decide if this
driver is appropriate or not.
And your client driver,
which is also your driver,
since it's a multiple driver suite.
can decide that it's
inappropriate and unload,
or it can continue and become
part of the active set.
But you can have as many different
classes of nubs as you want.
You can have your probe routine look at
the nub to decide based on properties.
It's a very flexible engine,
and I recommend very strongly
that if you're interested in
dividing your drivers up this way,
that you go off and look at
Darwin and look at some of the
source code for our families.
It really doesn't need
to be very complicated.
So the reasons for breaking
up a driver are really,
you only want to do this for,
basically for two reasons.
So a NIT time code is one of them,
but that's kind of a special case,
because obviously you can just build
a NIT time code into your driver.
If your NIT time code is very large,
particularly like a firmware image,
having it in a separate loadable
will help ease the cost of the memory
footprint of your driver setup,
because the runtime
code will stick around,
but you could unload your firmware.
The two real reasons to divide
up your Kernel Extension is if
you have product variants that
allow for mix and match drivers.
You've got one PCI card family that has,
you know, maybe three different
kinds of functions on it.
Maybe one product variant has an audio,
a video, and some other kind of device,
and a different version of the card
also has a SCSI storage channel on it,
and maybe a different variant of
the card has something else on else.
In that case, you probably don't want to
have one big monolithic driver
driving all those functions,
but you could have one basic
driver that matches on your cards,
determines what's there,
publishes nubs for each of the functions,
and then has function-specific
drivers match in.
It's a perfectly appropriate
use of I/O Kit matching.
That's effectively what we do,
if you think about it.
You consider the PCI bus
locating various functions,
various devices hanging off of it,
and probing each of those drivers.
Well, you can think of your card,
in that case, or your product, as a bus,
so to speak, that a variety of
devices may hang off of.
Another reason to split your
driver up is sort of the opposite.
You've got one peripheral,
but it may attach to the
system in a variety of ways.
Now,
I'll use a generic ADB or USB device.
We can say a mouse,
but we have generic drivers for that.
So, USB toaster or an ADB toaster.
The device is the same.
The actual packets that you're getting
and processing may be the same,
but your way of attaching
to it is different.
Now, you could attack this by providing
two completely different drivers that
have nothing in common at runtime.
Maybe they share some source code,
but one matches on the ADB family,
one matches on the USB family.
99% of the code's identical.
It's just duplicated.
Or you can make use of
something that I/O Kit allows,
and that is to split your
driver into two pieces.
You can have one very small
piece that matches on ADB,
the ADB device, one small piece that
matches on the USB device,
and then those can instantiate a nub
or can actually be the nub by simply
calling register service on themselves.
That will match in the one
big driver that's common,
the bulk of your driver
that does all the real work.
Now, if you've already shipped
a product like this,
maybe you have,
there's absolutely nothing stopping
you from putting all of those
classes into one kernel extension.
In fact, we would generally encourage
you to put as much as you can
into one kernel extension.
The reason you split up in this
case is because of the dependencies.
Remember, when you declare that you're
dependent on something,
we have to load it, initialize it,
and all of the things it depends on.
On a modern Macintosh,
the ADB family is pretty much not used.
If you have one driver that depends both
on the USB family and on the ADB family,
it's going to bring both
of those families in,
whether or not you actually use them.
So by splitting your driver
into three kernel extensions,
a USB-specific one, an ADB-specific one,
and then the generic chunk
that does all the work,
only the appropriate one will match in.
The USB one will match in or
the ADB one will match in.
and then they will match in the big one,
but you won't bring the ADB family in if
your device is plugged in via USB port,
and vice versa on one of the older
G3s that doesn't have USB by default.
If you have your device attached by ADB,
the USB family wouldn't be loaded.
Keep in mind the difference between
being loaded and being active.
Being loaded simply means the
code is resident in the kernel.
It doesn't mean anybody is running it.
Active or instantiated is when
your driver is actually in use.
Alright, I want to talk a little bit
about when drivers load.
This has been discussed on
the Darwin groups a good bit.
I believe that there's
a document out there,
I think on the next slide
I've got a reference to it,
that describes the various
stages of bootloading.
But by default,
if you don't have this OS bundle required
property in your kernel extension,
Your driver will only be
considered for loading relatively
late in the boot process,
well before the login panel,
but after the machine
has gone multi-user.
Now, there are cases where you need
to have a driver come in earlier.
In theory,
you should only have to do that if the
driver may be used for the root device,
the startup volume.
So OS bundle required would
be added in that case.
There are a few other types of drivers
that may need to come in early.
And also I'm aware that a few of
our families have generic drivers
that will match in very early,
so you might need to have this
property in order to compete.
But the next slide,
I think I show the various levels.
So what happens?
Boot-ex is the piece of
Mac OS X that starts the kernel.
So it really has a couple functions.
One of them is to load the kernel itself,
and the other one is to load
all the drivers necessary for
getting to the file system,
getting to the startup
In order to make that fast,
we create this cache file.
We call it extensions.imkext.
imkext stands for multicast.
Now,
if you've developed at all with 10.1,
you've probably encountered this file.
The whole point of it is to avoid
the booter having to go and scan
the whole extensions folder.
So we decide based on modification date.
If the cache is newer than
the extensions folder,
then we assume the cache is good.
This is important.
I'll talk a little more about this later.
So the cache is basically just
a compressed archive of all the
drivers that have OS bundle root
set to an appropriate value.
If the cache is stale or missing,
then BootX actually does go and
scan the entire extensions folder,
looking for drivers that
have the right properties,
and will load them individually.
It's a much slower process,
so obviously we want to boot off
the cache as much as possible.
So Boot-X just simply brings them in.
It doesn't actually link them
or try to make use of them.
So it's loaded the kernel,
it's loaded all of the drivers
either in the cache or individually.
Then it starts the kernel.
At this point, the kernel is basically
detached from the outside world.
It has no ability to do I/O.
All it has is the drivers
that Budex brought in.
So it's going to go through
and as drivers are requested,
it's going to choose from the list
of drivers that Budex brought in and
instantiate those and make use of them.
And that's going to build up, hopefully,
enough devices, enough access to get
you to the root volume.
Once you've got the root volume,
BSD can finish its startup
because it now has a root device.
And Machinit runs and we can have
other processes starting to run.
At some point, the ETSI RC script runs
and it will start Kextd.
Kextd is the daemon that
is responsible for keeping
KEXTs loaded and unloaded as needed.
At this point, Kexty contacts the kernel,
the in-kernel code that
manages the boot time stuff,
and says, "I'm going to take over
KEXT management duties." Again,
this is part of that "kernel
resources are expensive" mantra.
We basically implemented
this whole system twice,
just because this heavyweight
stuff doesn't need to live
in the kernel after booting.
So the kernel resident linking code
is jettisoned to free up that memory,
as well as all the images that
Boot-Ex loaded that we didn't use.
We speculatively load a lot of drivers.
We may not need more than half
of them or a quarter of them.
So then Kexty processes KEXT load
requests from that point on.
The kernel talks to Kexty,
says please load this kernel extension,
and it gets loaded on
the kernel's behalf.
Now, why do Kernel Extensions load?
I get this question a good bit.
One of the very important things
is we do not load a Kernel
Extension simply because it's installed.
This is sort of a philosophical
point with the way KEXTs work.
Something has to generate
the demand for them.
They're a way to extend the kernel.
I/O Kit has a pretty
extensive mechanism for this.
The device detection and matching will
bring the drivers in by calling Kexty.
File system kernel extensions are
loaded because you want to mount a
volume that needs to make use of them.
That makes sense, right?
If you start the machine up
and you never add another disk,
you probably don't need to have
all those other file systems
loaded until you see new media.
So doing it at mount
time seems to make sense,
and that works well.
NKEs are typically
loaded by startup items.
In some cases,
they're loaded by particular actions,
like if you go to make a PPP connection,
the PPP kernel extension may be
loaded when it wasn't loaded before.
But basically, throughout the system,
a kernel extension isn't
loaded just because it's there.
It's loaded because something has said,
"Yes, I have a need for this."
This really goes back to the three
universes I presented early on.
I said there's I/O Kit, NKEs,
and file systems.
Your kernel extension needs to fit
into a place carved out for it.
It needs to count on having
the kernel call into it.
It needs to be able to call into
the kernel and have APIs to talk to.
Module start and module stop are
not very interesting by themselves.
You can run the Hello Kernel
tutorial that shows you how to
write a kernel extension that
does nothing but print out,
"Okay, I'm loaded." Beyond that,
there's not very much interesting stuff
you can do without having some sort of
a deeper relationship with the kernel.
Having something generate
that demand is the way to go.
If there really isn't anything,
you've sort of stepped outside the
universe of these three standard areas,
and you're doing something
sort of on the fringe.
You need to have the kernel
extension loaded all the time.
It's not a file system.
It's not an NKE,
and you don't want to use
I/O Kit because it's not a device.
You can have a startup item that
calls Kextload and loads that driver
every time the machine starts.
So that would be the workaround.
That's the way to do that.
That should be rare.
You should really avoid doing something
like that unless you just simply have
no other way to accomplish your goal.
So the exact rules for what
generates the event is going to--
the load request event is going to
vary depending on the situation.
So what causes a kernel
extension to unload?
More or less the reverse.
I/O Kit has class reference counts,
or instance reference counts.
So we track what classes you've defined,
and we track how many
instances there are of those,
and instances of subclasses of
classes that you've defined,
and so on.
And what we try to do is wait until all
of your objects that have been allocated
out of that driver have been freed,
and no other drivers are loaded
that list user dependency.
We believe that at this point you're
completely clean and can be unloaded.
About a minute later, we'll unload you.
Now, we included that time delay there
because we figure somebody might
be rearranging their desktop,
unplugging a mouse,
unplugging a keyboard or a camera or
whatever to get this hub plugged in.
And we don't want to have this instant
flurry of unloading all the drivers,
and then 15 seconds later
when they plug it all back up,
have a flurry of reloading them.
So we kind of do it lazily.
If you're a developer,
that can be a little annoying because
you're trying to do this load,
debug, unload cycle.
Be aware that you need to manually
unload your driver if you want
it out of there immediately.
File system Kernel Extensions can
unload in their unmount commands
if they want at unmount time.
NKEs typically don't unload.
Sometimes they do,
but they tend to be services
that are available for the
entire lifetime of the system,
so they'll load in a startup
item and stay loaded.
But again, something like PPP,
if you don't have an active connection,
that Kernel Extension can be unloaded
when the connection goes away.
So, again, you can use the KEXT unload
utility to try to unload a KEXT.
Though the Kernel Extension has
the final word there.
I mean, they're wired into the kernel.
They've got pointers everywhere.
The KEXT unload request can fail.
And, in fact,
when you're developing Kernel Extensions,
that's one of the first things you
want to try to keep -- get working
and keep working is making sure that
your Kernel Extension can unload.
Make sure you're not having
references wired around.
So, once you get that working,
every time you rev the
driver and test it again,
make sure unloading still works.
It's a sure sign you've got some
kind of a reference count problem
if we refuse to unload your driver.
Binary compatibility.
So as I said earlier,
Kernel Extension management is based...
Aside from the XML property list,
everything that we do is
based on static linking.
The rules are very straightforward.
It's all based on what symbols are there.
You can use the NM utility to dump
the symbols of a kernel extension
binary to see what's there,
what's defined, what's undefined,
see how all the linking works.
But basically,
we've got what's in the kernel
extension symbol table to work with,
and that's it.
So in order to be successful at having
a driver that works on future releases,
you have to list all the
CFBundle identifiers that you depend on.
Now there's a document,
Kernel Extension Dependencies,
it needs to be updated for this release
and we'll be doing that shortly.
But it describes what versions
of what families shipped with
the various releases of Mac OS X,
so you can use an appropriate
version that you depend on.
But it's important.
The kernel, the big monolithic block,
mock-under-bore kernel,
is divided into four separate areas.
There's Mach, there's BSD,
there's I/O Kit, there's libkern,
and there's actually a few others.
But these are the ones that
you would list as dependencies
in your kernel extension.
If your kernel extension uses
both BSD and I/O Kit headers,
you really need to list both
I/O Kit and BSD as a dependency.
Today, if you don't do that,
let's say you just list I/O Kit,
but you're including
BSD headers on the side.
Imagine that in a future release,
Apple decides, "Oh,
we're going to split up the kernel
and have I/O Kit and BSD and
Mach loaded separately." I don't
think we're likely to do that because
it doesn't really buy us anything,
but the architecture supports it.
In that case,
you would have an unexpressed dependency.
You depend on BSD,
but you didn't express it.
So what's going to happen is
we're going to try to load you.
We think we've met all your dependencies.
We linked you against I/O Kit.
But you're going to
have undefined symbols.
It's exactly like having a binary
that you're trying to compile,
but you haven't listed all
the libraries that you need.
You can't get that final executable
until you've listed all your libraries.
So it's important that
you get those right.
Another thing that is
important to understand,
you need to build using the
headers from the oldest version of
the OS on which you want to run.
This is particularly important for
I/O Kit because of the way C++ works.
But basically what you want to do is say,
I want to run on Mac OS 10.1.0.
So you pick the headers that were
associated with that release,
and you build using those headers,
you'll get code that's compatible
with anything from that release on.
Our direction here is to provide
a more configurable system sort of
built into the headers so that we can,
at build time, look at your dependencies,
look at the versions you've
listed for your dependencies,
and make sure by using
preprocessor tricks that you're
only getting the APIs that were
appropriate for that release.
So if you're trying to use something
that's outside of the version that
you've declared a dependency on,
you would get a compile time failure.
We don't have that in place yet.
That's what we're working on.
So that would allow you to
use newer headers as long as
your dependencies were right.
But for now,
you need to stick with the oldest
headers that are appropriate.
GCC transition.
Jaguar contains the ability to take an
older driver and we call it remangling.
We basically take the C++ symbols
and remangle them into GCC3 symbols,
which are different.
And we can load them then.
I/O Kit and the kernel's
C++ infrastructure are
natively GCC3 and Jaguar.
In older versions,
it was based on GCC295 or 297
or various minor variants there,
but the ABI was pretty much 295.
So if you want your driver or
your kernel extension to run
on a system prior to Jaguar,
then you need to use the old compiler.
Now, you can do this by taking
the -- specifying the 295
compiler in Project Builder,
or you can just use an
older development tools,
depending on what you're practicing.
preferences are,
but something to keep in mind.
Okay, this has been said a few times,
I just want to make it clear.
If you can avoid direct
use of Mach and BSD APIs,
then your kernel extension is
going to have a lot better chance
of working on future releases.
BSD and Mach are going to change.
We're going to introduce new
APIs that are forward supportable,
and we're going to
deprecate the existing APIs.
Right now,
we just simply advertise structures
and internal components that are so
intrinsic to the way the kernel operates,
if we ever want to change those,
we have to break binary compatibility.
So if you can avoid use of those APIs,
your life will be better.
So how do you find out
about the new APIs?
Well, tracking the Darwin list is
a really good way to do it.
Most of the people working in the
kernel space tend to linger there.
We'll post important
shifts like this there.
Obviously,
the new emerging APIs are likely to
show up there first because they'll
be checked in as we're evolving them.
And of course,
your normal developer relations
contacts here at Apple will be able
to give you the information on that.
Another thing to avoid
is mixing API sets.
Now, since we've kind of told you to
stick with I/O Kit for the time
being for Kernel Extensions,
a very important example
Let's say you're writing an
I/O Kit driver and you need to
get access to a physical address.
You really should be sticking with
I/O Kit APIs if it's an I/O Kit driver.
In particular,
you should be using the I/O memory
descriptor and I/O memory cursor classes
to get at your physical addresses.
If you call PMAP extract directly,
you're going around I/O Kit,
you're going into Mach,
and that happens to be an
API that is going to change.
So you definitely want to try to
migrate away from mixed use of API sets.
Try to stick within the
abstraction that you've chosen.
If you're an I/O Kit driver,
use all I/O Kit APIs except
where you just absolutely cannot.
So, manipulating a kernel
extension from an application.
This is really talking about
installing them and uninstalling them.
There have been a few problems,
and I think Apple needs to be a
little bit more clear on how you go
about actually manipulating them.
The problem here is the
file system is the database.
and we're limited by what
the file system can do.
The Kexty and KEXT management
system that's sitting there
watching for files to come and go,
we don't have file notifications,
so we can't tell that a file's popped up.
So what I would recommend is to
try to keep operations atomic.
You should actually install
your driver somewhere other
than its final destination.
Probably temp is a good choice.
And then when you move it
into the extensions folder,
that kernel extension is going
to show up as a single operation.
Now, it hasn't really been a problem,
but you can imagine
what would happen is if,
let's say the user is
doing their install,
and at the same instant they say, oh,
I'll go ahead and plug my device in.
So they plug in the device,
and I/O Kit says, oh, okay, well,
let's look for a driver for this.
And it goes and finds the
half-installed kernel extension.
The Info.plist may be there,
but the binary isn't
there or isn't all there.
You're going to get
unpredictable results.
So by installing it somewhere else
and then moving it into place,
you're guaranteed that it's
either all there or all not there.
So you get more deterministic behavior.
Same thing for removing them.
If you're removing a kernel extension,
you should move it to slash temp.
In fact,
you don't even need to delete it.
Our system will take care
of that on the next reboot.
All right.
"A lot guarantees you're not going
to have partially removed Kernel
Extensions that we might try to load.
Also, you don't even have to
install your Kernel Extensions
in the Extensions folder.
In particular,
if you have an application that it only
makes sense for the Kernel Extension to
be in use while that app is running.
An example of that might
be a security dongle.
Now, hopefully this will be USB and
you'll be able to make use of
a user land driver for that,
but let's say for whatever reason
you really needed to load something
into the kernel when the app was
running for security purposes.
You could actually put that driver
inside your application wrapper,
and it would never even be
considered for loading at any
other time until your app runs,
and then the app can load the driver.
What it needs to do is have a
little separate set UID utility,
a little binary that can run,
and it basically forks
and execs KEXT load.
In the future,
we want to come up with a library
for KEXT management that you
can do this programmatically,
and we're also looking at the
possibility of relaxing some of
the restrictions on having to be
root to load a kernel extension.
But for now, these are the rules as
we've had in the past.
KEXT Preferences.
I've had a number of
questions about these lately,
and
I really would encourage
people to come up with creative
ways to avoid needing them,
because if you have a setting
that the user has to set,
that's one move away from the
ideal Macintosh user experience,
which is no settings at all.
You just use the system.
More importantly, it adds state.
This is state that may get corrupt.
It's state that may get left behind
when they remove the package,
and now you've got some
corrupt left on the disk.
It's just state.
And if you can avoid it,
you're much better off.
I fully recognize there are cases
where you cannot avoid having state.
And so we have a few
mechanisms that you can use.
We're working on improving them,
as always.
We want to make your lives easier.
But at the same time,
we don't want to make it so
easy that drivers and kernel
extensions become very stateful,
because that would not be
a good user experience,
and nobody would benefit.
First off, do not store preferences
inside of your KEXT bundle.
Consider your KEXT bundle read-only.
Consider it something that's in ROM.
Now, that being said,
you do have your resources
folder that the KEXT management
system largely ignores,
so you could put something in there.
But in the future,
we may choose to do things
like do bundle signing,
signature verification.
And so if you have some part
of your driver that's changing,
your driver is going
to violate its -- or --
The KEXT should be stored
in a library of preferences.
The file should be named for
your CFBundle identifier,
and the file should be an infop list,
an XML file.
You can use, in fact,
CFPreferences you can use
to manage those files.
There's a whole set of
APIs for doing that.
You have to do it from user space,
though.
In kernel drivers and kernel
extensions cannot directly
access files in the file system.
We do this to avoid circularity.
We don't want the kernel generating I/O.
The kernel is a service that's there
for applications and environments
and such to make requests of,
but the kernel itself shouldn't be
making a lot of I/O requests in general.
So what happens is your driver suite,
the set of things you
ship with your driver,
should include either a standalone app
or a preference pane or something that
the user can run to set the settings,
and then it will modify that file.
You're also going to need a utility.
It can be the same as the one
that you're using for the kernel.
It can be the same one, in fact,
to push the settings down to the driver.
Now,
what I'd recommend is let your driver
have a reasonable default behavior.
Again,
you need to decide what to do in the
case that the preferences haven't been
set or the preferences are corrupt.
So if you're going to
have to have preferences,
make sure that the absence of
the preference isn't fatal.
The utility, when it gets run,
can look up your driver by class,
can communicate with it,
and can set whatever those
preferences need to be for
the remainder of the runtime.
If you need to have some preference
set very early in the startup,
you probably have to have a startup item.
Now, I would request again
that you not do this,
because that's something that's going to
be run every time the system gets booted,
and whether or not the user
intends to use that device or not.
So it's best if you can have the
preferences attached with an action.
For example,
if you're making a PPP connection,
you don't need to have your
modem configured prior to
that connection being made.
If something is going to
auto-answer the modem,
say it's sitting around
waiting for faxes,
at some point it's going to attach to the
modem and configure it for auto-answer.
At that point,
it can set up any preferences
that are necessary along the way.
Now, this obviously only works if
you're owning the whole system.
You can set up a stack
from top to bottom,
including the app.
But that's the kind of thinking I would
really encourage you to veer towards,
is try to associate the preference with
the action and not with the driver.
So there are a variety of mechanisms for
communicating with your kernel extension.
I/O Kit has standard set
properties mechanisms.
We have I/O user clients.
And if you're in the BSD space,
you can use device nodes.
You can use sockets.
There's probably other
mechanisms as well.
Mach has certainly got plenty.
Most of I/O kit's communication
mechanisms are fundamentally
based on Mach messaging.
So you can look at the
I/O Kit source in Darwin and see
how we're doing that if you want.
So just a few random tips
that I want to throw out here.
If you're trying to figure out how to
get your driver loaded or unloaded,
add the I/O Kit debug property.
The KEXT is a property type set in your
personality inside your property list.
It's an integer value.
Make sure that you set the
property type to integer.
And you want to set 65535,
just all bits set.
I'm not particularly familiar
with what individual bits do.
I'm not sure that they are even used.
But if you set all the bits,
you'll get all the debugging info.
And in the system log,
the families will log some
information about why they did
or didn't match on your driver.
What's nice is since you're only
setting this property in your driver,
you're not getting logging information
for every driver in the system,
just your driver.
Of course,
when you go to ship your driver,
make sure and take that
property out or set it to zero.
A couple other tools that are handy.
IOReg, most of you probably use this.
This is a very important tool.
If you do IOReg-c in
the name of your class,
it's going to do sort of the
skeleton outline of all the,
everything in the registry,
but it'll expand just your classes.
This is a good way to find out, one,
if your driver is
instantiated and connected.
And two, if your driver isn't unloading
and it's still in the registry,
well, that's why.
Because if you're in the registry,
then the registry has a
reference against you,
has a retain against you.
And we don't unload you if
you have any references.
So obviously your driver
won't unload until it's out
of the registry at a minimum.
Another thing that can be handy
is the IO Class Count utility.
You can give it any number of classes.
What I recommend you do,
and this is something I've done
with drivers I've worked on,
get a list of all the
classes that you use.
[Transcript missing]
Run this command, plug the device in,
run the command again,
unplug your device, run it again.
Do this about ten times.
and make sure that the class
counts stay more or less the same.
Now, you'll want to do the first plug and
unplug to let I/O Kit kind of settle.
It's going to load your kernel
extension on the first plug and
that's going to cause some references
to be taken and you can ignore those.
But once everything is
kind of steady state,
plugging and unplugging the device,
you would expect to see all of those
classes--class counts remain flat.
If they're not, you're probably leaking.
I encountered this in a driver I wrote.
Everything worked perfectly.
Didn't have any problems at all,
but I did this little trick
on it when I was about ready
to ship it and I noticed I was
leaking I/O string references.
And was able to fix that.
And, you know, again,
it's not a problem the user would see,
but it can cause memory leaks,
which is certainly a bad thing.
It's a very -- this is
a tool to catch those.
Also, it'll help you figure out
why you're not unloading.
Oh, look,
my class has still got two references.
It's not in the registry,
but it still has references.
That would explain why your
driver isn't unloading.
So debugging panics and hangs.
First off,
you need to run this NVRAM command.
Set your boot args to at least four.
There's a, you know, a few different
This bit basically says that you're
going to allow the machine to be remotely
debugged and that you can break in,
particularly if there's a hang.
Command power on -- I think it's
command power on most machines will
break into debugger connection.
The machine will attempt
to connect to a debugger,
whatever it's running.
So even if it's hung,
and this is one of the
hardest things to debug,
everything works fine,
all of a sudden the system freezes hard.
You don't know what it is,
whether it's even in your code.
If you have this set and
you break into the debugger,
you can use a second machine to connect
to it and look at all the stacks of
every process running on the machine,
get a tremendous amount of information.
Another little tip there is don't put
your driver in system library extensions.
Don't have it be part of the normal
boot-up set because it's kind of hard
to filter what your driver is doing from
the background noise of all the other
drivers in the system being loaded.
So have it in a separate directory and
load it manually when you need to use it.
That allows you to set
up all of your test jigs.
Make use of the two-machine
debugging capability we have.
I know a lot of people have been
sort of hesitant to use it because
it does take some getting used to.
It's a little bit
different way of debugging,
but it's incredibly powerful.
And in fact, it's the only way to get
at some kinds of bugs.
So the new KEXT suites that Nik is going
to be talking about in a few minutes
make it much easier to get the symbols
out of your loaded kernel extensions.
And again, GDB lets you do a
tremendous amount of things.
I will log in printf inside the
We're aware that it's not synchronous,
and we're aware that it
has limited bandwidth.
That's by design.
I/O log is there to log sporadic
events to the console that the user
might want to know about or the system
administrator might want to know about.
It's not really intended to
be a debugging mechanism.
It's often used that way.
But it has a limited buffer size,
and it has a limited throughput.
This is done on purpose because we
don't want this service running on
the system to be a resource hog.
It's supposed to be invisible.
Now, if you are using this, a little tip:
Login -- when you get the login panel,
login is greater than console.
This will kill the Windows server
and put up a raw text screen
that is the Darwin console.
From there,
I believe IO logs are synchronous,
or very close to it.
So you get much,
much closer logging to the actual hang
or panic that you're trying to debug.
And when you're doing that,
if you need to, remotely logging in from
another machine to trigger the
panic condition is convenient.
Okay,
so to prepare Kernel Extension to deploy,
first off,
make sure the code is ready for release.
This is stuff you already know,
but I'll just put it out there.
Make sure you don't have any
asserts or debugger calls or
anything like that that's going
to cause the machine to trap.
Get rid of diagnostic messages.
We see -- we've even shipped them.
I'm disappointed to say drivers still
have diagnostic messages in them.
Remove the I/O Kit debug property
or set the value to zero.
You can do either one.
That will turn off the extra logging.
And don't forget to set
appropriate version numbers.
So that's getting your
source ready to ship.
You need to build in Project Builder
using the deployment build style.
Now, if you go to, I believe,
the Targets pane,
one of the parts of that window pane
will show you different build styles.
There's, by default, only two.
There's Development and Deployment.
And with those two build styles,
Development includes a lot more symbols.
You don't really want those to go out
because it makes your binary very big,
and it's unnecessary information.
If you don't build this way or
it's not convenient for you,
at least run strip-s on your
binary inside your KEXT first.
This will basically do the same thing
as what Building for Deployment will do.
Now when you package
your kernel extension,
use a tool like PackageMaker
that Apple provides,
and there's actually a document that
walks you through all the process.
You really don't need to multiply
package your kernel extension.
I've seen some that are a disk image
of a stuffit file of a tar archive.
Not a good user experience
and it really doesn't help.
You only need one level of
packaging to protect the
innards of the kernel extension.
And again, if you have a sophisticated
enough installer that can
have an installation script,
actually expand your kernel extension
into temp or somewhere else,
and then have the script copy
it into the final destination.
Always test your driver after
you've run the official installer.
We've seen cases where somebody has
done all their QA on a driver that
they've built using Project Builder,
and then they put it in
the package and ship it.
The packaging process can
actually mess your driver up.
In particular, file ownership and
permission is very important.
This is something we didn't enforce
properly in previous releases,
and in Jaguar we now do
enforce them properly,
or going to be.
Actually,
the developer C that you have now has
sort of a compromise for compatibility.
All the files and
directories in your driver,
in your KEXT, have to be owned by root,
and the group should be set to wheel.
The permissions need to be 7.5.5
for directories and 6.4.4 for files.
This is very important.
The key thing we're getting
to here is the KEXT,
every piece of the KEXT has to
be owned by root and may not be
writable by any user other than root.
So there are other variations of
file permissions that can work,
but if you meet those two criteria,
you should be okay.
Owned by root,
may not be writable by non-root users.
We recommend using
these exact permissions,
that's what we ship with and it's
what our tools produce by default.
Check that.
After you package your
KEXT and run the installer,
check that it's installing
with correct permissions.
Okay, I'm going to turn the stage
over to Nik Gervae now.
He's the engineer responsible
for the KEXT tool suite.
And thank you for your attention.
If you tried using any
of the Qex tools by now,
you've probably noticed a few changes.
Let me get right into that.
We've basically got a whole
new code base and tool set.
It's much more extensible and
maintainable than the old stuff was.
We'll be able to add
features more easily.
And it's built on a
comprehensive library.
In prior releases,
some of the Qex tools were built
using basically different libraries
or not even using a library.
So they didn't share the same logic.
Now we do that.
Although this library is not
available for third-party use yet,
we have to clean up the API.
You can check it out and see
how it works in Darwin under the
I/O Kit user and Qex tools projects.
The tools themselves now are Kextload,
which takes over all of the features
that Kmodload and KmodSIMS used to have,
adds a lot of features for debugging,
and nearly used up the
alphabet adding options.
It's installed with the base system.
As Dean mentioned,
this is what you use from
applications to load a KEXT,
and it's usage compatible
with prior versions.
Kextunload similarly
obsoletes Kmodunload.
It is installed with the base system,
and it's usage compatible
with prior versions.
Two new ones:
Kextstat obsoleting Kmodstat.
You don't have to be
root to run this anymore.
And it's installed with
the developer tools,
not in the base system.
There's a lot of conveniences added.
This is mostly for developers.
Kextcache obsoleting mkextcache is
likewise installed with the base system.
And then there's Kexty,
which is not a tool per se.
This is what tracks
I/O Kit load requests.
It is installed with the base system.
You should consider it an implementation
detail and not rely on it in your apps.
Don't rely on the presence of
the executable or the process.
There are options that you
can use to help in debugging,
and the man page covers those.
Now, using Kextload,
some of the new options that are
added is additional verbose logging.
You have up to six levels
of verbose logging,
which can get pretty chatty.
However, the seed you have has one bug.
Don't use level 6 when you're
loading a KEXT right now.
To generate symbols,
you use -s and give it the name of
a directory to put the symbols in.
It will automatically figure out
your dependencies and generate
dependencies for them all and
dump them into that directory.
You don't have to type kmodsims --d
this --d that --d this --d that.
If you don't want to load it
when generating your symbols,
you use -n, which means don't load,
and you have a whole bunch
of ways of doing that.
The man page covers
some of the usage cases.
If you just say -n and -s,
it will ask you interactively
for each of the load addresses.
Or you can specify each
dependency's load address with -a.
Or you can use -A,
which means this is the machine
that I'm getting debug symbols for.
Find out what they are in
the kernel and just do it.
There's also -k which remains
for specifying the kernel that
you want to use if you're using
a different kernel binary.
More stuff using Kextload is that if
you're debugging a driver start function,
you can use -l which means load it
only but do not start I/O Kit matching.
Similarly, you can use -m which means the
driver is already loaded but probably
not matched against anything.
So trigger the matching
routine which will cause any
start routines to get invoked.
For other KEXTs that don't use
the I/O Kit start routines,
you have to use -i which basically
pauses at each stage of loading,
including right when the KEXT has been
loaded into the kernel's VM space,
but before its module
start has been called.
And there's a variant on that -I which
will also pause for every dependency.
So if you're debugging a library,
you can use it there as well.
Because Kextload figures all of
the dependencies out for you,
it might be a little inconvenient if
you've got a problem with the kernel.
So you can use -d to check a particular
thing that you want to check,
a particular dependency
resolution scenario.
To get over that, you can use -d, -r,
and -e.
-d specifies an explicit dependency that
isn't in the library extensions folder.
-r adds a whole new folder,
so if you have a bunch of libraries
that you've built and you don't want to
put them in system library extensions,
you can say -r and specify a
directory and that's where they'll be.
-e means skip the system library
extensions folder altogether if
you really want to be paranoid
about what you're getting.
Another convenience,
during development you can use the -z
option and it will skip authentication.
You still have to be root to
load a KEXT into the kernel.
But -z will bypass any checks on
the file ownership and permissions
while you're doing the build cycle.
Because you don't want to have
to chown and chmaw your KEXT.
Now the seed you have,
that is in the base and the developer
tools versions for when Jaguar ships.
That option will not be
present in the user version
because it's a security hole.
Also, KEXT load performs the new strict
authentication in the seed if you use any
of the new options as well as with -i.
To maintain compatibility with
older KEXTs and their installers,
if it's just invoked with
no options and with a KEXT,
it will not perform the
strict authentication.
When Jaguar ships will be
improving that somewhat and
if we run into an older KEXT,
we'll probably prompt the user
and ask them if it's okay.
Another option for verifying your KEXT,
a lot of problems you've probably seen
with debugging your KEXT is because
it just won't load in the first place.
You can use the "-t" option with
Kextload now and it will perform a
comprehensive set of checks on your KEXT,
making sure the plist is okay,
making sure the authentication
checks are there,
and making sure the
dependencies can be resolved.
And it will print out a nice little
format showing exactly what's wrong.
You can always run kextload
"-nt" on your KEXT.
You can do that as a test
during development and before
you ship your software.
I highly recommend that part of your
QA process have your people install
the KEXT and then run kextload "-nt" on
it and see if there's any diagnostics.
The Kextcache tool,
which replaces mkextcache,
has some changes in behavior.
There's different ways of
specifying local and network boot.
I don't know that many of you use that,
but as you can see up here,
the behavior is a little bit different.
-l and -n honor things you
name on the command line.
If you specified a KEXT explicitly,
you probably want it in there.
But I've added -L and -N,
which screens them all.
This one also has one small bug.
If you name a KEXT on the command line,
it will not scan for plugins.
I've already fixed that, of course,
but too late for you guys to get it.
A quick workaround for that is
to put that KEXT into a directory
and then specify the directory.
To examine loaded KEXTs,
you use KextStat.
Again,
it does not require running as root.
Some conveniences are that you
can skip all the ones built
into the kernel by using -k,
so the listing will be a little shorter.
You can skip the
top-level header with -l,
which is useful for
shell skip processing.
And you can get information about
a specific KEXT using -b and
giving the bundle identifier.
To find a KEXT from an application,
we're adding some proper
APIs to KEXT management.
We call this function.
KextManagerCreateURLForBundleIdentifier.
That will go talk to Kexty,
and if Kexty knows about that extension,
you'll get back the URL to that
extension so that you can get to the
resources directory and load any icons
or other resources that you need.
Finally, we're going to wrap up with
a little bit of history.
Prior to now,
the focus has been on getting
KEXT management working.
So for 10.0,
it was boot time driver loading support.
For 10.1, we wanted to improve
boot time performance,
so we added the mKext cache.
And now with Jaguar,
we're finally updating the toolset
and building a base for new features.
There's also some more improvements
to performance in the footprint.
Future directions will be paired
between kernel and user space code.
Right now the logic is a little
bit different and we're hoping
to make that be the same.
Again, kernel APIs are evolving,
so the kernel KMOD API,
which I doubt any of you are using,
don't use it anyway.
Um, finally we're going to
make the KEXT management
library available to apps,
probably add KEXT bundle signing,
and get more input from
you on what you want.
And that leads us to the roadmap.
So is Keith there?
Just keep reading this?
Okay.
The next one is the Darwin roadmap,
which already happened.
Hope you were there.
Another one that already
happened is yesterday,
Open Source, Apple and You, Session 103.
We just had the Darwin kernel
a little while ago,
and after lunch today will be
Feedback Forum 2 on Darwin.
Who to contact?
That would be Craig Keithley,
who is right there.
He's our USB and FireWire
technology evangelist,
and there's his email
address right there.
and for more information,
Apple's developer website and the
Darwin project website and mail groups.
Documentation includes man pages.
I rewrote all the man
pages for these KEXT tools,
so have a look at them.
Kextload in particular has a very long
man page with lots of usage scenarios,
so if you're trying to figure out
how to do one particular thing,
read that.
There's a release note
and there's revised
I/O Kit documentation on the website.
And now it's time for our Q&A.